#summary Summary Changes
#labels Featured

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

More or less official beta releases are available in the Downloads section. See each plugin for detailed description of functions.

unreleased
 * PP, HS, UR, Overlay: Popup from UR did not always work, some risk for null exceptions.
 * UR: PP popup normally disabled
 * PP: Prepared for integration with Trails

2.0.336 2012-03-21
 * HS: Min Grade could not be set to negative values

2.0.332 2011-12-13
 * PP: SpeedZone settings update
 * UR, Overlay: Minor Italian translation update
 * HS, PP: Show ProgressBar when calculating in popup and after activity selection update.
 * UR: If not SelectedTime was set selection did not work (so if other plugins
set some other, CommonStretches did not work)

2.0.322 2011-07-30
 * All: Updated German, Italian, French and Spanish translations
 * AS: Visual updates
 * HS, PP: Minor fixes

2.0.314 2011-04-08
 * Released UniqueRoutes, Overlay, HighScore and PerformancePredictor as 2.0. No updates are planned for AccumulatedSummary and Trimp.
 * A few copy list issues in HS/PP
 
1.9.311 2011-04-07
 * HighScore: Updated User interface, using SportTracks tables
   
1.9.307 2011-04-05
 * PerformancePredictor: Updated User interface
   * Action banner with menu, Sidebar can be hidden
   * Using SportTracks tables 
   * Split Training view in Training/Extrapolate

1.9.289 2011-03-22
 * Overlay, UniqueRoutes, PerformancePredictor: Updated French translation

1.9.286 2011-03-19
 * All: Release resources when popup is closed. This could give a crash when editing an activity after or slower performance. See issue 24.
 * Overlay using Track start time when displaying charts, to handle misformatted activities.
 
1.9.271 2011-02-19
 * UR: Direction check also for route snippets
 * UR: GPS Radius display should be displayed as twice the prev distance
 * UR: Longitude internal grid was smaller than latitude grid away from the equator - plugin could fail to find a few routes (low probability).
 * Some GUI cleanups

1.9.262 2011-02-17
 * Overlay: Stopped time excluded in list summary

1.9.258 2011-02-03
 * Overlay: Spanish translation update

1.9.257 2011-01-29
 * Italian translation

1.9.256 2011-01-22
 * HighScore: issue 20 Default value for min grade
 
1.9.252 2011-01-18
 * HighScore: GUID fix

1.9.247 2011-01-15
 * HighScore: Integration in Trails - High Scores with charts and compare
 * HighScore: Possibility to set "min grade" to accept for High scores - to avoid that all (shorter) high scores are down hill
  * Limited number of default values at settings reset (and for new installations).

1.9.244 2011-01-13
 * PerformancePredictor: Click in table to see part that HighScore integration used to predict performance.
 
1.9.240 2011-01-12
 * HighScore: Click in table to show where the HighScore occurs

1.9.237 2011-01-11
 * UR, Overlay: Add ColorSelector
 * Slightly darker marked tracks

 * Overlay can use CommonStretches in Unique Routes to set Offset
 * Overlay: Zoom to all activities at activty change
 * Overlay: Show current reference activity in the menues
 * Overlay: At startup, the chart bar was always shown independently on the settings.
 * Overlay: Add list colums: Category, FastestSpeedMetersPerSecond, MaxPace, MaximumHeartRate, MaximumCadence, MaximumPower

 * Unique Routes: Improved Common Stretches, enable upcoming support in Trails
 
=Changes in SportTracks 3 before 1.9.224=
Very brief summary, see the specific plugin documentation for details.

==All plugins==
 * Support for multiple activities in Activity Pages
 * Corrections and UI updates

==Overlay==
 * Overlay has a redesigned UI, better confirming with ST interface.
 * Show activities on the Route view
 * Many new features like diff charts
 * Offset in Graphs

==Unique Routes==
 * Show activities on the Route
 * Route Snippets: Find parts of routes in other activities
 * Improved Common Stretches algorithm
 * Updated UI, using ST lists

==SportTracks 2==
 * SportTracks 2 is now no longer supported. ST2 has been supported when possible also for some new functions mentioned. There are builds from the end of December for ST2 users. ST2 support will also be removed from the code over time.

==TRIMP==
 * TRIMP is not in the official ST3 plugin catalog but has so far been updated. This will no longer be done.
 
==Changes from Kristian Bisgaard Lassen's version to initial ST3 version==

===Background===
Kristian Helkjaer Lassen (Kristian Bisgaard Lassen before he got married) has put up the code for his plugin here at Google Code. I enjoy Kristian's plugins very much, they have worked really well for me. Most of the issues posted for the plugins has been that the download site is down or that there are exceptions when installing in other locations. It is likely that some work is required for next major ST version and Kristian has indicated that he not really has time/interest to maintain the plugins right now. Every thing has it it time. Open sourcing the code lets everyone take over the maintenance. Right now, ST user gerhard has access rights to the code and has started to do some work with the plugins.

Kristian has added me as a committer on Google Code, I have done some work with the plugins (a lot of the changes were started when I was home with a cold but not had to stay in bed all day). There are not many visible changes. See the Changes page on Google Code for details.

===Details===
 * Plugin settings are now stored in the ST file Preferences.System.xml file instead of in individual preferences.xml files. The plugin will currently try to parse the old settings file if no information is found in the Preferences.System.xml.
 * Plugins are adapted to .st3plugin/.st2plugin format. The plugins were created before the format existed and required some changes to work. Note that most exceptions reported in the forums seem to occur when users have repackaged the plugins in .st2plugin format.
 * Works in Mono/Linux, except AccumulatedSummary that uses browser integration. There are no specific changes to achieve this, just the change of storage for preferences was necessary.
 * Cleaned up labels in graphs/tables and table format. Using the translation information built in to !SportTracks for common information like speed/pace etc. This decreases the job required to make translations, both for making the translations, but even more to handle the strings when building. Another benefit is that this makes the user experience more consistent (always the same format for something like km/h). Note that this information was not available in ST when the plugins were first written, it has been added in a later update.
 * More localization, following the ST settings for distance, temperature etc.
 * Input of distance, time can be done in the ST way, i.e. "5km" is handled correctly even if you have the distance set to Miles. For Speed this not available. For Pace, the time is always per "distance unit" and can be entered as standard time (like 5:30) or in minutes (5.5 or 5,5 depending on your !DecimalSeparator settings).
 * Documentation is just transferred from the old site at gpsrunning.nicolajsen.nl
 * UniqueRoutes, HighScore: Double click on activity to go to it. UR saves sorting of tables.
 * UniqueRoutes tries to match "Common Stretches" with the reference activity (visible as tool tips).
  
===Bugfixes===
 * Various update issues, like ST restart was required to see changed settings for UniqueRoutes.
 * Some unit display issues, like Elevation summaries in AccumulatedSummary were always in meters, not in the elevation unit settings.

=Future plans=
If you want to participate, please join. gerhard and staffann currently drives development, the current job is to only minor changes to the functionality, just updating the structure. There will likely be more additions over time. Some thoughts:

 * UniqueRoutes "hints" to other plugins where matches were found, using the "Common Stretches". This is for Overlay and !DotRacing to match graphs better.
 * PerformancePredictor: Age tables?

 * TRIMP plugin: No plans for it, I would like recommend users to use Training Load instead.
 * Accumulated Summary: No immediate plans.

===Related plugins===
The Unique Routes plugin is integrated in other plugins.
!MapOverlay/!DotRacing should work without changes.
Matrix plugin requires an update.

===Migration===
 * The old plugins under %!ProgramFiles%\Zone Five Software\!SportTracks 2.1\Plugins must be removed manually.
 * The settings files can be removed after first startup (but there is no harm keeping them if you delete the Preferences.System.xml file, without a backup).
{{{
%APPDATA%\
  AccumlatedSummaryPlugin (always empty)
  HighScorePlugin
  OverlayPlugin
  PerformancePredictorPlugin
  TRIMPPlugin
  UniqueRoutesPlugin
}}}

=Feedback=
For patches, bug reports or feature suggestions, use the Google Code issue list.
For other feedback please use the !SportTracks forum or this wiki.